# MobileCheckers Overview #

For our project, we decided to focus on the Android platform for gaming. To do this, we decided to work specifically with Unity. Unity is an excellent real-time development platform in which the types of games the user can build are numerous. Unity also provides compatibility on over 25 different platform, including on both mobile and on desktop. For our project, we decided to create a game of checkers to show off what we learned about Unity. Unity allows us to use C# scripts to code checker pieces, moves, and the game mechanics in general to fit how we want. One big positive about Unity is how quickly and easy it is to create and modify Game Objects, as that is extremely helpful in loading up games and the moves the pieces make.

# Getting Started #
In order to work on Unity for this project, we're first going to need to install it. Head over to https://unity3d.com/get-unity/download and click on the button that says "Download Unity Hub". Open the installer, agree to the terms of service, select a proper installation folder, and let the program install Unity on your computer. In your first time using Unity Hub, you may be prompted to create an account and go through and example project. Feel free to create your account and explore the options they provide you. Once Unity Hub is installed, opened, and past the tutorial phase, there should be a few tabs on the left. The user should click on the "Installs" Tab. This will bring up a page where you can install different versions of Unity. Click the blue button near the top that says "ADD".

Inside ADD, they will prompt you to select an option of recommended releases or official releases. For our current project, it is not listed since they've made updates. In order to get our version of Unity, you're going to want to click the blue link to visit our "download archive." Inside there, you're going to want to click the tab that says Unity 2020, and you're going to want to locate the version "Unity 2020.3.0". To the right of that label should be a green button that says Unity, click on this button. This will prompt another installer. In here you're going to want to ensure that the installer runs and that you download the android libraries as well as the default checkmarked installs. Wait for this to install, then bring Unity Hub back up.

With the projects tab open on the left side of Unity, we're going to want to click the blue new button in the top right of the screen. For templates, we're going to want to download the Mobile 2D template provided. For the project name, feel free to call it what you like and create a path that you will be able to find the project in the future.

# Step-By-Step Coding #
For coding the scripts to make the game function, we'll use C#. We're going to need to create a Controller to handle the events of the game. To do this, right click under the hierarchy and select Create Empty. This will create a new GameObject

# Further Discussions/Conclusions #
This was our tutorial on how to utilize Unity and how our group utilized it to create a Checkers project. Unity is becoming an increasingly popular development tool for creating games, so this was a great experience on our part to see what goes into coding Unity games. We recommend that you all take a look into Unity if you are interested and have the free time. One tool that is useful for Android development specifically is in the Unity Package Manager called "Device Simulator". This allows you to get a look at your game from the perspective of users on different sized phones. Here's an excellent tutorial on its uses and how to install it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uokF9CmUs9c . We really enjoyed creating this project, and we hope you found this tutorial helpful. Hopefully it sparked some interest from you all to test out Unity!
